evolution of compose explainer (#16521)
docker/docs: compose/compose-v2/index.md

---
description: Key features and use cases of Docker Compose
keywords: documentation, docs, docker, compose, orchestration, containers, uses, features
title: Evolution of Compose
redirect_from:
 - /compose/cli-command-compatibility/
---

This page provides information on the history of Compose and explains the key differences between Compose V1 and Compose V2. 

## History

The first release of Compose, written in Python, happened at the end of 2014. Between 2014 and 2017, two more versions of Compose were released:

- [Compose 1.6.0 with file format V2](../compose-file/compose-file-v2/)
- [Compose 1.10.0 with file format V3](../compose-file/compose-file-v3/)

> These three early releases are collectively referred to as Compose V1. 

Reviewer: There was way more than 3 releases for Compose v1, the last one is the `v1.29.2` 😅 
But the `1.6.0` and `1.10.0` were noticeable as they introduced version `2` and `3` of the Compose file format.

Author: Ah that's actually what i was trying to communicate in that section - that there were 3 main releases within Compose V1 which are the file formats, not that there were only three releases 😅  But I've obviously not done a good job, so I'll try again! Thank you, Guillaume!

Reviewer: Maybe we can reword this way:
```markdown
The first release of Compose, written in Python, happened at the end of 2014. Between 2014 and 2017, two other noticeable versions of Compose, as they introduced new Compose file format version, were released:
```

---
description: Key features and use cases of Docker Compose
keywords: documentation, docs, docker, compose, orchestration, containers, uses, features
title: Evolution of Compose
redirect_from:
 - /compose/cli-command-compatibility/
---

This page provides information on the history of Compose and explains the key differences between Compose V1 and Compose V2. 

## History

The first release of Compose, written in Python, happened at the end of 2014. 
Between 2014 and 2017 two other noticeable versions of Compose, which introduced new file format versions, were released:

- [Compose 1.6.0 with file format V2](../compose-file/compose-file-v2/)
- [Compose 1.10.0 with file format V3](../compose-file/compose-file-v3/)

> These three key file format versions and releases prior to v1.27.0 are collectively referred to as Compose V1. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These three key file format versions and releases prior to v1.29.2 are collectively referred to as Compose V1. 
```
Compose V1 refer to Python version of Compose, even if versions between `v1.27.0` and `v1.29.2` could handle Compose Specification file format they are still considered as Compose V1
